README.md, before:

# Genomic_analyses_of_Chelidonium_majus
Exploring Nature's Defenders: Genome-wide identification and characterization of Major Latex Protein and Glycine Rich Protein families in Chelidonium majus

## Overview

This repository contains scripts used for genome annotation of *Chelidonium majus* (Greater Celandine) and downstream analyses like identification or characterization of Major Latex Proteins (MLP) and Glycine Rich Proteins (GRP). These protein families play crucial roles in plant defense mechanisms and stress responses.

### Chelidonium majus

*Chelidonium majus* (Greater Celandine) is a medicinal herb known for its yellow-orange latex. As a member of the Papaveraceae family, it produces a rich array of secondary metabolites and defense-related proteins that likely play a role in plant reaction to pathogens. We sequenced and assembled the genome using combination of Illumina short reads and Nanopore long reads. 

### Protein Families of Interest

**Major Latex Proteins (MLPs)**: A family of defense-related proteins originally identified in the latex of opium poppy. MLPs belong to the Bet v 1 superfamily and are involved in stress responses, including pathogen defense.

**Glycine Rich Proteins (GRPs)**: A diverse group of structural and regulatory proteins characterized by repetitive glycine-rich motifs. Among others, GRPs participate in signal transduction, and defense responses. Their flexibility and ability to interact with various cellular components make them key players in plant development and stress adaptation.

### Included analyses

This project employs computational genomics approaches to:
- Sort contigs anc calculate basic assembly statistics
- XXX
- Identify MLP and GRP gene family members in proteome resulting from conceptual translation of the C. majus proteome and orthologous groups
- Analyze gene structures, conserved domains, and motif compositions
- Parse annotation results and create tables and figures

Commit message:

Mention promoters in README.md
Add promoter analysis in description

README.md, after:

# Genomic_analyses_of_Chelidonium_majus
Exploring Nature's Defenders: Genome-wide identification and characterization of Major Latex Protein and Glycine Rich Protein families in Chelidonium majus

## Overview

This repository contains scripts used for genome annotation of *Chelidonium majus* (Greater Celandine) and downstream analyses like identification or characterization of Major Latex Proteins (MLP) and Glycine Rich Proteins (GRP). These protein families play crucial roles in plant defense mechanisms and stress responses.

### Chelidonium majus

*Chelidonium majus* (Greater Celandine) is a medicinal herb known for its yellow-orange latex. As a member of the Papaveraceae family, it produces a rich array of secondary metabolites and defense-related proteins that likely play a role in plant reaction to pathogens. We sequenced and assembled the genome using combination of Illumina short reads and Nanopore long reads. 

### Protein Families of Interest

**Major Latex Proteins (MLPs)**: A family of defense-related proteins originally identified in the latex of opium poppy. MLPs belong to the Bet v 1 superfamily and are involved in stress responses, including pathogen defense.

**Glycine Rich Proteins (GRPs)**: A diverse group of structural and regulatory proteins characterized by repetitive glycine-rich motifs. Among others, GRPs participate in signal transduction, and defense responses. Their flexibility and ability to interact with various cellular components make them key players in plant development and stress adaptation.

### Included analyses

This project employs computational genomics approaches to:
- Sort contigs and calculate base assembly statistics,
- XXX,
- Identify MLP and GRP gene family members in proteome resulting from conceptual translation of the C. majus proteome and orthologous groups,
- Analyze gene structures, conserved domains, and motif compositions,
- Parse annotation results and create tables and figures,
- Analyse promoters (upsrteam regions) of MLP or GRP proteins and extract significantly overrepresented regulatory motifs.
